Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we will draw the board.
All right, so the board is going to be drawn dynamically, but before actually doing that, let's go
ahead and let's select the elements that we will be working with.
So first off, I'm going to grab all of our boxes and I'm going to store it within this variable.
And because there is more than one, we are going to say query selector.
All right.
And all of them have a class of boxes.
Now, this is going to return to us an e-mail collection, but we need an array.
So we are going to say CONSED boxes array and we are going to say array, dot from and then pass in
the variable name.
And this is going to convert that variable into an array.
Now let's go ahead and let's grab the result, which is the H1.
So document.
That query selector, right, and use it using the name each one.
And then finally, we are going to grab our reset button or restart.
So document that query selector.
But now keep in mind that in a real world application, this is not a good practice to you, select
your elements using their class as use, using their element names.
The reason for that is you will, of course, with any website, you're just going to have one, each
one.
But there is a high chance of having more than one.
But so it's better to just give it the give them a class like this.
So I'm just going to give it a class and I'm going to say a reset button and I'm going to save that.
Let's copy the class.
So just to follow good coding practices and within these brackets, within these quotes, you can do
any valid cyesis select selector.
And for our H1, we are going to say I'm just going to give it a class of results.
Now you can do a class and or I.D. It doesn't really matter which when you use.
And there is actually no like upside to one rather than the other.
It is just a matter of preference, whichever you want.
Some people really like the idea of the idea of IDs and they use IDs all over their jobs.
But I personally do not agree with that.
In my opinion, you should be able to use whichever whatever it is that you want when it comes to Estima.
So you can grab the class, you can grab the ID, you can grab any attribute of that specific element
that you want to work with after that.
What I would like to do is I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to create some game parameters, parameters,
and we're going to have our player one and we are going to denoted as O Capital O, and then we are
going to have our player to denote denoted as Capital X..
Now, this could be anything, right?
And then we are going to select players turn now.
The player's turn is going to be the players, the first player.
We are going to change this, so don't worry about it.
Now, after that, what I would like to do is in here we have spaces now I could use like spaces, the
name spaces, or I could do like choices.
I think choices makes more sense.
So I'm going to initialize the choices.
These choices, all of the choices with an empty array and then let's go ahead and let's create the
function that is going to draw the board.
Now, the way that this board is drawn is very simple.
We have nine items here.
And knowing that this is actually an array, we know arrays are zero based indices.
So the first one is zero index.
The index is zero one, two, then three, four, five and five, six, seven and eight.
So based on this, we will be able to draw the board.
And where will I like to call?
This is on top here.
Right, so now let's go ahead and let's actually draw that so we are going to grab our boxes and for
each of them we are going to grab the box, each individual box and the index for that individual box
and then let's send a callback.
So what do we want to draw?
We want to draw a border.
So let's initialize it with an empty string.
And then we say, if now keep in mind if.
So if I come here, if the index is less than three, what does it mean?
It means we are talking about the first row, so the first row has index of zero one and two.
So they are less than three, right?
If they are less than three.
We draw a border bottom for them.
Right.
So let's go ahead and let's actually do that.
F index is less than three, it means that we are talking about the top row, then we want to grab the
border and add onto it.
Keep in mind, we do not want to override it.
We want to add other we want to be able to add other borders as well.
So if you just provide this and you override this with this border, then this border is going to go
away and this one will be remaining, which we do not want.
Now let's grab our border bottom property from C assess.
I want it to be two pixels solid and the color should be white.
And then let's just ended with a semicolon and let's say that it's come here.
We don't have we don't have our border yet.
And the reason for that is we need to assign it to this.
We need to assign it to the box.
So we are going to say box.
That style should be equal to border.
Now we should see something.
There we go.
So this is our first border.
I'm going to create them step by step so you can really understand what's going on in here.
What I would like to do is I would like to use a modulus operator with which, to be honest, I'm not
sure if we have covered.
And it doesn't matter because I will be explaining this.
The modulus operator is going to give us the the remainder of a division operation.
Right.
For example, if you divide ten by five, the modulus operator, the remainder of that is going to be
zero.
Right, because ten is completely divisible by five or by two.
So you can divide by that.
Now, we say that if the index divided by three equals zero, it means the remainder is zero.
What it is that we want first off, let's assess where we are talking about.
So where it is that the index is divisible by by something solid by three and the remainder is going
to be zero.
So what can be divided by three four from which we can get a zero remainder.
So it could be either three or six.
Right.
Or zero.
So we can get zero zero divided by three.
We are going to get zero for the remainder three.
This is this is three right here where the cursor is three divided by three.
We are going to get zero as a remainder and then we have six.
So zero three and six.
So basically we are talking about this first vertical column.
Of course, columns are vertical.
So this first column for the first column, we need a border.
Right.
So we are going to say board.
You know what?
I'm just going to go ahead and copy that and I'm going to paste right here and I'm going to change this
bottom to right.
Let's save it now.
We should see a border.
There we go.
So this is the border that we just create now.
For us to create this ball left, we need to do this basically the same thing, but with a little bit
of difference.
Now, if the remainder of that division is too, it means that we are either selecting to five or eight.
Right.
You could go ahead and grab a piece of paper and a pencil and you can do the division.
I'm just going to go ahead and say, if it is to, then I want this border to be applied to left.
And you can see that we have this, the only border that we need to create is this one.
So for that, I'm going to grab the last item.
So item six, item seven and item eight, which all three of them are greater than five.
So I'm going to say it's copy that if index.
Is greater than five, it mean it is six, seven, and there are only three possibilities we want to
add to the border, we want to add to the border a border of top.
Let's save it.
That's come here.
There we go.
Our border is perfectly fine and we were able to actually draw the border.
Now, this was fun, right?
We haven't done anything using JavaScript.
What we have drawn, we haven't drawn like using like success in this manner that just taken into account
the indices and doing the math and just drawing the borders dynamically.
So with this, our lecture comes in and see you guys in the next one.